Homework for the course: 
Programming Languages and Types.


Hand in ...

  ... before Monday, November 28, 8:00 am in the morning.
  ... by email to pllecture @ informatik ...
  ... as attached files

You can hand in in small groups. Mention the names of all group
members in the email and in all source files. Every group member
should understand the full solution. If possible, meet in person,
talk, and work together!
  
Copy the necessary definitions from the lecture notes.




Weak references
===============

Weak references retain a pointer to an box, but do not prevent the garbage
collection of the box. Accordingly, after some time, the weakly referenced
box might be garbage collected, thus dereferencing the weak reference returns
the undefined box (or null).

Implement weak references for our language with mark-and-sweep garbage collection.


HOAS interpreter
================

Discuss how the HOAS interpreter works and how it relates to the FAE
interpreter. Is it equivalent to the FAE interpreter? What happened to closures,
identifiers and environments? Can you implement dynamic scoping with an HOAS
interpreter?


Syntactic interpretation vs. metainterpretation
===============================================

Make our interpreter more syntactic by representing numbers as syntactic objects
that do not rely on Scala numbers.


Church encoding
===============

Write the following functions using Church-encoded representations of data.

1. Factorial function on naturals.
2. Addition function on naturals.
3. Length function on finite lists.

Do not forget to test all of your code.
