Homework for the course: 
Programming Languages and Types.


Hand in ...

  ... before Monday, November 21, 8:00 am in the morning.
  ... by email to pllecture @ informatik ...
  ... as attached files

You can hand in in small groups. Mention the names of all group
members in the email and in all source files. Every group member
should understand the full solution. If possible, meet in person,
talk, and work together!
  
Copy the necessary definitions from the lecture notes.




Interpreter for recursive language
==================================

In the lecture you have seen an environment-based interpreter for RCFAE. Write a
substitution-based interpreter for RCFAE. Discuss the differences of these
interpreters with respect to recursion. Would have implementing a dynamically
scoped recursive language been easier?



Total functional programming
============================

Now that you know how to handle recursion, read the article _Total functional
programming_ by David Turner and answer the following questions.

    http://www.jucs.org/jucs_10_7/total_functional_programming/jucs_10_07_0751_0768_turner.pdf

(i) What are the advantages of total functional programming?
(ii) What is the difference between data and codata?
(iii) In your opinion, why is total functional programming not more widely applied in practice?



Mutable state
=============

Is mutable state a desirable programming language feature? Discuss advantages
and disadvantages.

